It's the lowest plateau of three.
There are three different platas, and here we are on the lowest level.
And it's called Tila del Belvedere because it used to be one, because of its position, it used to be on the slope of the Vatican hill.
and the courtyard was built across this courtyard in the middle 16th century by Pope VI.
So some of the buildings around this courtyard go back, date back to the 15th century but the library, the building with the library's house today is the 16th century building and the library used to be upstairs
will visit the Sistine Hall, which is now the place, it's part of the Vatican Museum, so you can visit that when you go around the museum tour.
It is used for exhibitions, it's a place for exhibitions or meetings.
The library used to be smaller, through, down, more or less the corner of the corner.
But first, there is evidence of the library being here by the Pope's seat from the very first, very first centuries.
Really?
Yes.
But the, shall we say, the first evidence of a library which was created for scholars, just not as a Pope's private own library, but as a library open to the public, was with Pope Nicholas Fix.
And so we are at the middle of the 15th century.
And his follower, 6th to 4th, then assigned to the library.
There's a room and a staff.
That was a chain, is that a chain library?
Yes, that was a chain library, yes.
Some of the furniture of the library survived and we'll see it upstairs.
Oh, wonderful.
Yes.
Okay.
Anyway, the library then over the century grew because of the... quite a variety of different collections were added to the initial collection of manuscripts.
Manuscripts?
Then today the library is not simply a library, but there's also a museum which is part of the library consisting of more than 20,000 pieces.
These are museum pieces?
Yes, museum pieces.
Artifactual things.
Yes, yes.
Sacred art and profane art, ivories, bronzes, glasses, dress codes,
other animal.
Were they acquired in the course of acquiring books?
Is this how they mainly came?
Yes, they were acquired as collections, so they were either donated to the library or purchased by the library.
During, of course, in the 16th, 17th and 18th century, the
The distinction between a library and a museum was not so clear, so in fact it was just a collection and it was meant as a collection of cultural artifacts.
Do they have any scholarly significance, do you think?
Oh yes, yes, indeed.
I will show that part of it is an exhibit, which is exhibited in the galleries, in the two galleries upstairs.
Then there's a coin collection, which is quite a large one, an extensive one.
It consists of several hundred thousand pieces of items.
It's the largest with respect to papal
coins and medals, and one of the largest, I think it's the second, this is the, the, to the Louvre, the one in the, yes, in France, for Roman, coins of the Roman Republic.
And then there's a collection of engravings and drawings.
And that again is a consequence of the acquisition of entire collections around the second half of the 18th century, already
some hundreds bound volumes consisting of about 42,000 prints and engravings were arranged according to different criteria like the gender or the school of the artists and those other ones.
So today, and then of course there is a collection of manuscripts, part of which are the original bulk of the original collection.
When I say original collection, I mean the 15th century collection.
Nothing survived from the very third or fourth century library.
Do you think those materials from the 3rd or 4th century were obviously just documenting the particular popes, the papacy, they weren't necessarily going out systematically as they started in the 15th and 16th centuries and developed this more humanistic kind of approach that went well beyond strictly theological concerns?
How would you say that the library
No, this is not really a theological idea.
I understand that.
No, I think that the first collections were just dispersed.
It was intended as the Pope's own private library.
So, following the dead of the Pope,
It was either taken by his relatives or... So it was not.
It was not.
It never meant as a library belonging to the state, to the Catholic state, the Holy See.
It was just after Sixtus the Fourth and Nicholas the Fifth that the library then became the Madison Library and the library opened to scholars, Nicholas the Fourth, scholars that Nicholas the Fifth started his collection as a settlement collection from his own.
With the idea that it would be made available to... It would be made available, yes.
Yes, exactly.
That's quite a critical decision, isn't it, at some point?
Yes, indeed, yes.
Shall I say, it is considered one of the earliest modern libraries in English.
Of course, the idea of readers at the time was quite different from readers, what you would call readers and scholars today, but nevertheless, it was their library was open to scholars.
The library was in recent years, say in the 20s and 30s, the library was reorganised following the Anglo-American tradition of libraries.
And also new stacks were created.
You see this building, it's all dismantled inside, and there's a new, like a tower, built structure of stacks, which go, which have, they're not relying on the walls of the structure of the building,
But they have their own foundations, of course.
And these stacks were made of solid steel.
They were made in Pittsburgh.
And then they were shipped to that and reassembled here.
It was one of the earliest modular library stacks.
At what point did you start cataloging systematically?
In the... In the 20s.
In the late 20s.
The Leibniz-Franz's cataloguing rules were translated into Italian and make it more, I wish I would say, we had to cater for special problems, problems which would cause consequences of the specificity of the
material that was held in these libraries, for instance, ancient books or religious matters.
So some of the rules were just customised, so to say.
But in general, the cataloguing rules were very much the same as the translation.
And also the subject cataloguing was carried out
following the same American, Anglo-American tradition.
But prior to that, there was a record of what you had.
How would a scholar know what to look for, what to ask for?
There were handwritten inventories.
Well, the catalogs.
That's an interesting phrase, handwritten inventories.
Yes, handwritten inventories.
Kept in codex-type books, or were they...?
Yes, kept in volumes.
Did you keep a record of provenance, of years of acquisition, from whom, from where, that they were purchased, that they were given?
Oh, yes, yes.
So that's very carefully made, those records.
Yes, the information is kept in the art house of the library.
There are archives which are distinguished from the secret archives.
The secret archives are the state archives.
Historical and current archives.
And that's what they call the secret archives.
The secret archives, yes.
Whereas the archives belonging to the library are the library zone.
They have nothing to do with the state archives.
Are they secret in the purest sense?
Can a scholar request access to any of them?
Oh, yes, yes.
Secret is from the Latin word secretum, which means with, together with.
So it was the archives that had to travel with the Pope and be wherever he was, had to follow him.
So the word secretum, with him, this is the word secret.
It's nothing to do with secret in the sense of something hidden.
Like sectator.
Yes, like sectator, for instance.
The same origin of the word sectator.
So a scholar can't put access, and in many cases it will be granted.
Oh yes, yes, yes.
That's very important to understand.
People might misunderstand the central secret archives.
Yes.
They are open, of course, the last 50 or 75 years are closed because as in any other country, of course.
During times of war, did all the materials stay here?
Did they ever have fear that they might be destroyed?
No.
And removed into some safe place?
Even other libraries were taken to this.
Oh, right here?
Yes, they were taken.
From a scene, of course.
I have a question.
We were at the Ambrosiana.
last week, and during the course of our interview there, this father who was showing us around indicated that there are something in excess of 1,100 ecclesiastical libraries in Italy, accounting for perhaps as many as 27 million volumes, which is extraordinary.
I mean, that may even be more than what the state library system has.
And I wonder, is the Vatican Library considered part of the ecclesiastical system, or is it unique?
Is it the Vatican Library?
Well, it's like the National Library of the Vatican.
So it's both an ecclesiastic library, but it wouldn't be ecclesiastic.
It is a religious library.
It's not a religious library.
So it's not part of the ecclesiastic system there.
What would you call it if you don't call it Ecclesiastes?
Research library.
And you also said the National Library of the Vatican, which is very interesting.
That's very interesting.
Did you have a question?
You were about to ask me.
One of the things we're looking at also is national libraries, as repositories of national culture, how a library works.
different countries have different ways of different approaches.
Yes.
And of course I hadn't thought of the Vatican Library in terms of being a national library.
That's quite interesting.
Yes.
Well, of course it wasn't a nation until 1929.
That's right.
So it's a... 1929?
The Lateran Pact.
This came along just in passing, but I wondered why, and of course I'm not asking you to comment formally on this matter,
In Italy, there are a number of national libraries.
It's not like in the United States, where we have this huge country, we have one national library in Washington or in Britain that's in London.
Here in Italy, they have, what, six, eight?
Yes.
There are two central national libraries and eight national libraries.
And I wonder why they are so dispersed.
Because of the history of Italy.
Italy was...
until not very long ago, divided into many different states, with small, like smaller, with sovereigns.
So they came to their libraries.
It was the national library of a small state, like, for instance,
in Lombardy or Tuscany or Naples or the south of Italy.
So they were the library of that small, small, more or less small state.
It's similar to Germany as a library of Bavaria or Saxony.
That's right, but they have more or less pulled them together into the... In Italy then, because the capital
a city moved first to Florence and then to Rome.
Then there are two central libraries, one in Florence and one in Rome.
But do they replicate each other in terms of collecting interest or do they try and complement each other?
Not really.
The national library, central library in Florence is the national cataloguing agency.
They produce the current national bibliography.
Whereas the library in Rome is responsible for cataloguing foreign material.
Okay, good.
So there is, it's not a duplication.
There is quite a lot of overlap though.
Which is good.
Yes, because of the legal deposit books have to be
books have to be given in several copies, one of which goes to Florence, another one goes to Rome, or to the nearest National Library.
And then, according to the nature of the book, a third copy would go either to a university library, to a research library, or to a public library.
Is there a similar kind of a depository arrangement with the Vatican?
I mean, do you require books that may be published by...
Catholic churches or universities or whatever, are they required to deposit these books here, I wonder?
Not if the universities do not belong to the Vatican.
Those pontipical universities in Rome, for instance, they are not part of the Vatican in the States.
So, with the exception of St.
John Latin, which is in fact under the same administration of the Vatican language.
So we don't get their books as a rule.
We get most of their publications, most of their theses, for instance, but not all of them.
Anyway, because of the nature of this library, it's a good...
To get all this material would make things very... I mean, it would create a problem with space.
Storage, yes.
Do you have any upstate storage?
No.
Are you contemplating any of that?
Yes.
Where would you go?
Oh, well, I mean, I don't know at the moment, but I suppose it would be somewhere in some other place here in Rome where we have...
which is extraterritorial.
Could be, for instance, the radio station in Santa Maria Vigalaria or some building, I don't know.
I know that this is something we are considering in the fish.
For the time being, what we did, we tried to, shall we say, optimize the use of space.
You will see that the building, because of the
Being in such an ancient building, you have very nice Jose rooms, but it's also quite a waste of space because, for instance, you have big tall ceilings or frescoes and thick marble floors, but then it's difficult to run cables.
So we're now opening, and I'll show it to you later,
the new periodical reading room.
And that makes quite a lot of space.
And then just quickly, do you deaccession anything?
Oh yes, yes, deaccession.
Deaccession?
Deaccession, no, no.
Just maybe every now and again duplicates, duplicates, especially if they are modern duplicates.
Most cases they would be used for exchange.
But you don't go through the collections and weave things?
No.
Not so far.
And then just in terms of numbers?
Printed books?
Yeah, 1.6 million printed books.
8,300 inch anabula.
150,000 manuscripts.
Wow.
That's a question.
65,000 manuscripts are just codices.
Most of them are Latin, Greek, and Oriental manuscripts.
And the collection of medieval manuscripts is one of the largest in the world.
They're probably the most important ones.
Well, it's one of the, as regards medieval manuscripts, of course, not modern manuscripts.
Modern manuscript leads not very significant.
I mean, not compared with out of collections, Library of Congress, or British Library, or Bibliothek National, of course.
This would be compared to the Bodleian libraries, if you want to.
In this sense, it's a research historical light.
Okay, great.
Before I forget, could you spell your name for me and your title so I can attribute you properly?
Okay, Weston, W-E-S-T-O-N.
And the first name?
Paul.
Chiefs and George?
Gabriel.
And your title here, sir?
And I'm responsible for the automation project.
Oh, I want to talk about that, too.
Of course, we're dealing with libraries of the future in this new book.
You have brought quite a bit of automation into this library.
Okay.
I've heard, I know that I've
seeing you before, because I live here and Father Boyle was, I think I, at one point when I was thinking of doing a story on the materialization of the library, Father Boyle had told me to speak with you, so I'm very glad to have made this.
I'll give, my name is Lucy Gordon and I'm a journalist here.
But I'm a, thank you.
It's as though it's hard to see.
Is it Dr. Weston, by the way?
Well, actually... Thank you, indeed.
I was responsible for banking force.
Back in 1984, when the operation... The operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation of the operation.
And you were born in England?
I was born in Rome, but then lived in England until it came.
We moved to Rome.
This is very modern.
Yeah, this is very modern.
This is the periodical greeting room.
It would be open before the end of this event here.
So we have about 8,500 periodic serial publications in current subscriptions.
So they will all be here, open stacks.
Scholars will be able to...
There are about 25,000 titles.
But this, of course, includes closed periodicals.
Maybe we have just one couple of issues or the entire collection that the periodical has ceased for you.
You suggested downstairs, and I think maybe I even interrupted you, but you said that the early readers are different from the readers of today.
Yes.
The readers of today, well, 60% of our readers come from abroad, that is, countries other than Italy.
Actually, also those coming from Italy come from abroad.
But 80% of our readers come from
outside Rome, so we have quite a number of languages spoken in the library.
I should say Italian is a lingua franca, but English, French, Spanish and German are the most.
And in order to be a reader of the library you have to be
either a professor or researcher or librarian.
Students are not allowed.
We have to be quite selective because of lack of space and also the importance of the collections, the uniqueness of the documents.
We have to make sure that people can
make good use of them, so this is why.
You'll see upstairs in the reading room, there's room for about 220, 250 scholars at a time, so... Do you have a number as to how many you do approximately each year?
How many people are allowed?
Yes, about 6,000.
6,500.
The number of users has been growing quite regularly over the last 10, 15 years.
So you give credentials to about 6,500 applicants, or you'd have 6,500 people coming in.
One scholar might come in repeatedly over a period of weeks.
Yes, that's right.
So some have annual
from its other half, just temporary.
And then, what percent are GTS people?
Oh, very small.
I don't know.
I mean, roughly, I would say about one, two percent, more than that.
Because you're involved in the automation end,
Are you working to scan the manuscripts, the ancient documents?
Yes, yes.
And I wonder where that stands in terms of percentages.
How many of your documents have you digitized?
Oh, a very, very small portion.
Do you have a program to get them all done?
It was a pilot project.
We carried out a pilot project which lasted about 24 months.
And during this project, we had a sample of, let's say,
40,000 images from 50, 60 documents, 60 manuscripts.
They were scanned in their entirety.
When I say scanned, I don't mean optical recognition of the text.
It's just the image, just the image of the, in a machine, shall we say, in digital form.
and the idea is to create a database of images with a good number of our manuscripts and also other item pieces from the various collections and make them available in electronic form either through by the various networks like internet or
But that would just be sort of as a reference to it, or in a more, as you say, better quality on CD-ROMs or other media.
Do you foresee the day when a scholar comes here and asks to see such and such a manuscript, and you say, well, we have that digitized, we recommend that you read the copy and not the original?
Do you think you foresee...
Not allowing access to the original.
Not really, no.
Unless the manuscript is particularly precious or fragile, or in very bad condition, then we give the original to our scholars.
Because, of course, they need the original for their studies.
If you're studying the parchment, or the colours, or the
uh or the ink that was used then you need or the even the handbag you need the original you have to go to the original no uh copying will replace the study of the original that's just you anticipated my next question only if you're studying well of course if you're studying the text or if you have some technological uh study you want to know which uh how many manuscripts have a lion with this
write, put up, then in that case you can study.
You can work on reproductions.
If it's strictly a textual concern.
Yes.
Well, it's a textual concern and there are no problems like, say, rewriting the palimpsest, you know, things like that.
Then you can have a sometimes a reproduction, a microfilm or
or another kind of reproduction is even more legible than the original.
Especially if the image was captured in special conditions like ultraviolets, wood lamps and things like that, then the contrast can be enhanced and the text can be more legible.
We have tried some kind of what we call electronic
restoration of manuscripts, and that is, when capturing the image of the manuscript, if the manuscript has some kind of deterioration, like fungi or other things, we can capture, we can find the, shall I say, the wavelength of that, what we can call noise, and of course the image is captured the way it appears in the document,
But then you can ask the system to have that wavelength filtered.
And then what you see is, in fact, the text without the deterioration, without the fungi.
When you have a photograph, or even
so you can take away molds and marks and stuff.
That's excellent.
And you have all of this machinery here, it's on site, or do you outsource it, as you say, in the United States?
Well, yeah, partly outsource.
This project has been a joint venture of three different institutions, the Catholic University at Rio de Janeiro,
IBM International and the Vatican Library.
And of course Rio de Janeiro were responsible for, shall we say, IBM was the technological partner involved, Vatican Library was at the know-how, provided the know-how in manuscripts, paleography, history, all those things, as well as the documents.
And the University of Rio de Janeiro, they worked on the structure, on the fire structure.
Have you heard of that before?
No.
There is a website.
IBM did have a website on their work with the Vatican Library, but they really didn't go into any of the detail.
And what do you call that?
Electronics?
Restoration.
I love that phrase.
I would have a lexicon of these phrases in my new book.
Restoration, yeah, of manuscripts, actually.
It's a kind of virtual restoration because you're leaving the document untouched.
What you're doing is you are cleaning it electronically, removing all the noise, filtering it.
And if you want to use another metaphor to medicine, it's not an invasive procedure.
Oh, no, no, it's not at all an invasive procedure.
In fact, you could have two texts, because of the cost of the parchment in the Middle Ages, of course, they used to sort of use the same piece of parchment several times.
So, if you look at the text, you see just the very... Should I say just the most recent... The surface text.
The surface text.
But you don't see... If you read that under special life conditions, then you can read the text that was written underneath.
And sometimes they may even be more interesting than what's on the surface.
Sometimes they can, yes.
In the past, in order to, should I say, magnify or to...
They used to put the ink in some kind of, not ink, but it was some acids, and that has severely damaged the manuscript, because it has changed the organic structure of the manuscript.
In using these special amps and these technical devices,
Can you think offhand of any specific examples where you've discovered something like this?
Well, any specific example of a very famous one that was in Decivita Today, that was rewritten over a piece of Cicero.
And that would have been maybe then later published as a... That was, that was.
No, that was studied by Cardinal Angelo Mai.
Oh, yeah.
It was Mai, Angelo Mai.
It was last century.
M-A-I.
He discovered that.
He discovered that, yes.
That's interesting, yeah.
That's good.
The application.
Well, the technology is there.
I mean, people shouldn't be afraid of it.
It is, you know.
Let's get it.
No, it's really fine.
Yeah, no, it's really fine.
Actually, it's a wonderful place.
Oh, yes, it is.
If you have...
Do you have, uh, without flash?
Yes.
You can take the photograph.
Do you want to have it on the table for you?
Oh, that's fine.
No, I'll... It's ready to go if you want.
Oh, that's okay.
I'll, uh... Yeah, it's going.
Okay.
That's very sweet.
I, I, um... Where were these, that...
They don't come from Pittsburgh.
Oh, no, no, these are very... No, the company's the same, the same supplier.
Uh, Stratford, Stratford Steelcase.
They're the same suppliers.
So these are also Americans, then?
No, now this is a company in Italy.
It's the same, the same...
To go back to Angelo Maio's regular thing, how did he discover that they were written on top of each other?
Well, he realized that the house... He wasn't a stick.
Ah, I see.
Is this Leo the 13th?
Yes, Leo the 13th, yes.
And this is the card, the catalogue... It's the Library of Congress.
but is it um ceased so you're doing things on um and when did it see in 1985 it's a library of congress catalog well this is it's a replica
Everything made there because of the life of Gondis.
So if you want me to remember what the life of Gondis looked like in the 30s you come to the African island.
Because this is all perfect.
These shells and everything was the life of Gondis.
Even the lamps, everything?
Yeah.
And...
When this was brought in, it was a shock for the people working here because they were used to these wooden carved stacks, furniture, and they felt that all this iron and glass would be a bit, you know, very sort of cool and very not appropriate for the flag, but in fact they proved
Over the years it was very, very solid, very good service.
Holes to let the air through and the dust and also with all these rails so that you can move up and down the... Ventilation and adjustment duration.
This is the printed material reference room here.
The reading room is next door.
The card catalog consists of almost a million and a half cards.
You will realize, yes, 1.5 million cards.
Some of the cards are, most of the cards are tight.
But some of them are printed.
So, you see, these are printed cards.
These cards were printed, produced at the Library of Congress.
There was an agreement between this Library of Congress and the Vatican.
We did cataloging for them for books, either Italian or religious books.
And then we got the parts in exchange.
And this went on until 1943.
This, by the way, is 1939.
1943 because of the war.
It was only resumed in the...
in the 80s, late 80s, when, because of the introduction of automated procedure, we started re-importing, importing data from external sources.
So we did derive cataloging from OCLC and Parlay.
Have you done any retrospective conclusion of this?
Yes, this is all being converted into machine readable.
And the entire catalog is now available, is now accessible through internet.
And do you keep the card catalog up to date?
No.
It's been closed in 1985 because we've changed the cataloging rules.
We've moved from the Library of Congress rules of the 20s to AACR2 and American cataloging rules.
And some of the headings are now
quite different, not so much in the way of personal names, but corporate body names.
They used to be entered under the name of the place, either the city or the country, the state.
Now they go in direct order.
Now in order to have those records filed with the others, one would have to either make cross-references or read
re-write the re-input the heading and that was a terrible place because with so many cards it's difficult it is a difficult thing to find the noise especially some of the if you go to
Cicero or Rome or Bible or Codence, you'll find that there are maybe six, ten floors.
So it's very difficult to keep them in a good shape.
Doctor, before I forget, do you have an email address?
Yes.
You mean the back and myself?
I want to follow up and run some of your things by you so you can make sure they're right.
My address is weston at librs6k dot vatlib.it
It doesn't matter what case it is.
Yes, it's lowercase.
I love email.
It's very efficient.
Yes.
And of course, this is also the internet address of the capital.
Anything I quote you on, I'll be happy to run by you.
Right, okay.
So you have an opportunity to make sure everything is right.
Right.
Is this the only library in the world that has a library school attached to it?
Yes.
Well, I don't know if it's the only one, but it's certainly quite a... It's quite rare to have a library school attached to a library.
It was, again, a consequence of the restructuring of the library in the late 20s.
As the new rules and the new organization of the library came from the States, then the school was created in order to enable other religious libraries to benefit from all these changes.
So the idea was that
the library school should be used to teach new cataloguing rules, new subject headings, new reorganisation of the collections, new library procedures.
This is why it was created.
I wonder if you can give Nick a
It's not really a catalogue of what's taught, but... Oh, yes, yes, I can give you.
Yes, of course.
I'll go downstairs.
I just keep checking how it's done.
Yes.
Even the way books are arranged in the stacks follows the criteria of the Irish Congress.
They are classifications.
We don't use classifications.
We have subject headings.
because most of our collection is in code stacks so you have to you have access through the district it's a distribution desk but of course so you don't need to classify to keep them classified but here in the reading room there are about 50 000 volumes in open stacks which is one of the largest collection in open stacks that is fair yes you have about three thousand four thousand catalogues library catalogues
from all over the world.
Of course, libraries which have something in common with this library.
So, like the British Library, Oxford, Cambridge University, National Library, or from other places, maybe their manuscript catalogues or ancient books, ancient collections, antiquarian collections.
And here we have, of course, Aristotle,
The primary tools, the Bibliotech National, the British Library, the Library of Congress, the catalogue, the Deutsche Bibliothek, and these useful tools.
And then we have a set of materials.
Thank you.
Library, library, dealing games.
This is an off-to-water photograph.
of which he orders in here.
How do you want to ask him how to order for his photograph?
Come abroad.
Thank you.
I forgot about that now.
Excuse me.
So come abroad.
You can order the e-mail.
Thanks.
for an email.
We're now implementing your web, so you can order the web.
If you fill in form, if you do it manually, if you're reading it, you'll fill in form.
And that there is...
I'm going to print engravings, coin collection, museums, and various negatives, photocopies, microfilms, kodachromes, and ultraviolet things.
Where is it?
We don't do photocopies of manuscripts, of course.
You can have a re-stamp, a re-paint of microfilm and paper, but not a photocopy of them, of course, or manuscript.
And that doesn't work.
Oh, yeah.
You don't want it one time, let's see if I can get another one.
It's called a cradle.
It's on oil.
So it's like, you know, a car is... When the book lies on it, it will then sort of balance itself.
And there's a set of...
special lenses and mirrors to reduce the consequences of the curving of the blade.
You've seen the
Norton facsimile of the Shakespeare folios.
They use the Hingman collator, I guess, it's called.
But you get those curves in the pages.
Yes.
You're able to eliminate those curves?
You're trying.
I'll show you.
Okay.
Standing pages, really.
This is an example of the hand-break thing.
We have lots of inventories.
This is a closed collection called the Barberini Library.
As you see, we have this is the Giana Library.
Again, this is more modern because it's already sort of pre-formatted, but it's handwritten, as you see.
Then we have the inventories.
Yes, you can type written inventories and then printed catalogs.
So printed catalogs can be available in various libraries, of course.
Printed inventories and manuscript inventories are available here.
So these were also treated as manuscript and scanned.
Okay, here, if you look down for how we can do electronic restoration in this case.
In the past, to prevent the decay of paper, the paper was included in two layers of plastic, and this has damaged the paper because
it has favoured the ink that is from the outside and this is irreversible so one will not be able to go back to the previous position so this is one of the cases for the electronic restoration because you can
You can find out the wavelength of this, and have it removed, and have it nice and clean.
So in this case, the poppy is much more legible than the other ones.
And more desirable, too.
Yes.
It's a case where you want to preserve it.
That's exactly right.
And you don't want to.
You see, manuscripts are all in ghost acts, with the exception of these manuscripts, which indeed are manuscripts.
And because of there being a reference material for the manuscript collection, they're also very heavily used.
So they are in danger.
Because other manuscripts are only accessed maybe once a year.
And not all of them.
Some of them are.
But these are accessed once a day.
So they are really worn.
They're in real danger.
So please, when this will be scanned,
And this will not be available in the original version, but in its electronic reproduction.
Inventory of?
Of the Ottoboni, of the Ottoboni collection of Latin manuscripts.
And here let me show you.
Unfortunately, that's not the one.
I'll show you.
I'm afraid I'm just able to show you the thing because it's not working.
Apparently they're doing something.
There's a mess.
I'll show you.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Please blow the deck.
You put his jackets on.
It's really exciting.
Yeah, it is exciting.
This doesn't happen very often.
No, I think I've only been in here when I went to the library school in about 20 years.
I'd like to think how many years ago.
Where did you...
I studied to learn all these things about automation as well as the medieval world.
University, here at the library, at the School of Library Science, various places, yes.
And in England also?
Yes, these are marked incunabula.
Yes, these are the incunabula.
And you have these.
These are the incunabula, and there are connections, and I will show you
This is the Aldine collection.
We have a copy of every volume published, printed by the Aldine.
You have every Aldine?
Yes.
How many are those?
One, two, one.
These two.
There and there.
Aldous invented the little book, the little octalium.
They are 160 first type.
165 seconds, 309, so it's 320, 600, I'll say about 750 altogether.
Maybe more because it goes to this one, which I'm not.
750 different titles?
Different titles, yes.
And this is the so-called La Colta Prima, which is the first collection of the library.
This was the, shall we say, the first collection of printed books around which the library, the Vatican Library was created.
Yeah, so this is the heart of the collection.
No flash in here as well?
I can raise a flash in here.